# N-body-sim

This code is written as a project for numerical method class. I though it would be a waste to just leave it unattended in the directory.

In this work, the n-body simulation is generated by solving ordinary differential equation derived from the Newton's law of gravitation. The O.D.E is solved by two different methods. The first method is using the Scipy library and the second is method is done with the self implemented Runge-Kutta method. The two methods give the same result within the small time interval; however in the long run (if the system is chaotic) the results varies due to error that occur from the difference in step sizes and methods.

I've decided to create a python class to represent each object in motion the name of this class is "object". This choice of using a class to represent each objects helps to generate the acceleration of each objects at each time step. However, it creates complication when used with the scipy library because the library require the data to be input in a specific format. This is the reason that two functions in the "Functions for changing types of data" are written. Thier purposes are to change the data from objects to array or vise versa for the purpose of plotting or solving O.D.E

The code is written such that it express the simulation in both 2 and 3 dimensional depending on the input given in object class. If the velocitie and position vectors of every objects are in 2 dimensional then the simulation will be 2 dimensional.
